I always like to think that my movies
can be distilled down to a single shot.
It's so challenging for me to do this
because I don't watch the movies once
they're done. And so I'm thinking like
what were the trailer shots? And those
are never the ones I want to focus on.
In the case of Ain't Them Bodies Saints,
that shot is the poster. That was the
last shot that day as the sun was going
down. Big steady cam shot down that
hill. You know, the scene itself is
beautiful. I love that moment. I haven't
seen the movie since it came out, but
that's that's what I think of when I
think of that movie is filming that
scene. They have one last parting kiss
before they're pulled apart. And the
poster, the image that was captured, you
know, we that was taken while we were we
were filming that shot. And it captured
exactly the right moment. And I ended up
using that still both as we use it as a
poster, but we also took it and made it,
you know, part of the newspaper articles
that you see throughout the movie. And
that image captures everything I wanted
to capture in that movie. Everything all
of the iconography, the sense of romance
that I didn't really know was going to
be a part of the movie until we started
making it. The texture of the film, the
the just the the western je ne sais quoi
that it participates in. All of that is
baked into that one image. I love a
moving shot. I love a shot that takes us
from point A to point B because you are
over the course of that shot telling an
entire story unto itself.
Pete's Dragon was one of the few times
in my career where I've teared up on set
or gotten really emotional on set. This
is a movie that has plenty of
opportunities for that, but there's one
in particular towards the end of the
film. Wes Bentley and Bryce Dallas
Howard are walking back to the house
their house after the climactic moments.
And Wes is carrying Oona Laurence over
his shoulder. And her hands are wrapped
around his shoulders and Bryce's hands
is on her hand. And it's one of those
things where I remember as we were
filming it just seeing the configuration
they were in. And I asked our camera
operator to just dip down to their hands
for a moment and back up again. What I
remember is it was just this very
delicate just little offhand moment
where we just tilt down and catch this
connection between all of these
characters in this moment. This
incredibly tender moment that you just
see on set sometimes and ask, you know,
the camera operator make sure make sure
we get that.
Favorite shots from A Ghost Story
it's really almost too easy, but the
scene with the pie. I think it's
probably the shot that I'm the most
proud of because I didn't allow myself
to interfere with it. We set it up. We
knew what time of day to film it at. We
knew where to put the camera. But we
knew where we were to put the camera
because I asked Rooney what she wanted
to do. And she could have said I want to
sit at the table or I stand at the
counter. But she wanted to sit on the
floor. And so we brought the camera down
to the floor, went with her. And I
remember talking to Andrew, my
cinematographer, and thinking like, oh,
should we add a
a dolly track to it just in case we want
to do a gentle push in or should we
should we complicate it in some way? And
we just were like, no, we have to hold
back. We cannot let our filmmaking
instincts push us into a territory that
is speaking for Rooney's character. Our
job is to witness her and to be there
with her in this moment. We can't
underline it in any way. I've not shown
much restraint in my career. I I love I
love maximalism, but in that moment I
knew that would be wrong to do so.
The Green Knight.
There is a sequence
at the end of the film. Again, a montage
where Dev Patel's character is imagining
the life he might lead if he flees the
Green Chapel. And there's a sequence in
there where
he imagines his child being born. And
that sequence was one that was two lines
in the screenplay. And we wound up
spending half a day shooting it because
the emotions of it were so intense.
Dev's presence in there, I remember him
stepping into this onto the set and he's
watching as his child is presented to
him. It was beautifully lit. Andrew, who
I worked with on A Ghost Story and and
most of my movies since, was uh was
lighting it. And I remember feeling like
we weren't capturing
we weren't illuminating Dev's character
in that moment in the right way.
Ironically, it was because he was too
illuminated. And I remember going to
Andrew and asking, can you can you just
slice him in half and put half of him in
shadow and let so he can play along this
line of the shadow. And all of a sudden
it became chilling in a way that it
hadn't been before. I I don't think Dev
is an actor who most people would ever
find frightening. But in that moment I
was afraid of him. And so that moment
sticks with me because not only because
of that lighting and what Dev brought to
it, but to then see how Alicia Vikander
reacted to seeing him in that light. I'm
now covering the two moments that I've
cried on set. Pete's Dragon and then
that scene as a whole really really did
a number on me.
Day two of the shoot, we did this long
dolly shot of Dev one walking across
this epic landscape. And the rain was
coming down sideways. It was the most
blustery day. It was the day that the
type of weather we came to Ireland for.
And I love that shot because of its
duration. I love any shot that, you
know, earns the right to be as long as
it is. And that one again is a character
going from point A to point B across the
frame.
And I really wanted to feel the ardor of
that journey. But I remember thinking
like, what if there was like the
skeleton of some fantastical creature, a
whale or a dinosaur or a dragon in the
background. And so in post-production we
added the skeleton in the background.
And then my visual effects artist
Nicholas Bateman
I can't remember if it was his idea or
my idea, but we added a family of bears
living in that skeleton. So if you look
closely at that scene
it's a whole story for Dev. And the
background, there is an entire history
of the natural world in which one life
form is given way to the home for
another. Once you see it, you can't
unsee it. There's like a family of bears
living in a whale skeleton. And it's one
of the things that makes me the happiest
about that movie.
My favorite shot, and because I just
came out of the edit, I know where it is
in the edit, which is the last shot of
reel five. It's one of the longest lens
shots of the film. I think we were on an
85 or maybe even a 105 mm lens. And we
did not go that long that often, at
least at that proximity. But it is an
over-the-shoulder shot of Mother Mary
as Sam drapes his blue cerulean gown
over her shoulders.
And in that moment she takes just a
second to appreciate the beauty that she
has put together. And you see it in her
face. I don't want to call it pride
because it is okay to be proud of one's
work, but it's more than that. It is it
is the pleasure of seeing something
beauty of seeing something beautiful and
taking a moment to appreciate it. And in
the midst of all that is happening in
the movie at that moment, which is a
seance, regurgitation of deep pain,
there's so much happening. But in that
amidst all of that, amidst all the Sturm
und Drang, there is still a moment where
Michaela takes just half a second for
herself to appreciate the beauty that is
before her. And that shot is the one
that I think I will carry forward from
Mother Mary.
It's a really tough question to ask
someone who's basically has no life
other than watching movies.
I often reflect upon this shot that I
don't even know if I'm remember
remembering correctly. But in
Apichatpong Weerasethakul's Tropical
Malady, there is this shot where the
soldiers are wandering into the jungle.
And my memory of it is that the soldiers
cross through the frame
and disappear off into the into the
jungle. And the camera then begins to
push towards the trees. What the camera
is doing, whether it pushes or not even,
maybe my mind is adding that dolly shot
to it. I've seen the film twice. But
that shot, the way in which it
transitions from an objective point of
view to a subjective one, absolutely
blew my mind. I don't I wasn't prepared
for it in that movie. It's a very It's a
movie full of magical realism, but for
some reason I hadn't ever connected the
magical realist perspective to the
camera itself. It really It was really
one of those
those shots that you carry with you for
the rest of your life as a filmmaker and
you think back upon. Now I really want
to go as soon as this is over, go rent
that movie and watch it and see see It's
probably been about 10 years since I
last saw it. But what's funny is that
I've That's my memory of it from the
first viewing. I watched it again, and
whatever impression it made on me from
the beginning, that's how I remember it.
So maybe I'm remembering it exactly
right, maybe not, but that's the
impression it left me with.